Add past releases (#113)
duckdb/ducklake-web: release_calendar.md

---
layout: default
redirect_from:
- /cal
- /release-calendar
title: Release Calendar
body_class: release-calendar blog_typography post
max_page_width: medium
toc: false
---

<div class="wrap pagetitle">
  <h1>Release Calendar</h1>
</div>

DuckLake follows [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).
Larger new features are introduced in minor versions,
while patch versions mostly contain bugfixes.

DuckLake 1.0 is planned to be released in 2026.

## Upcoming Releases

> Upcoming releases are shown in the table bellow. **Please note that these dates are tentative** and DuckLake maintainers may decide to push back release dates to ensure the stability and quality of releases. DuckLake spec releases are currently tied to DuckLake extension releases, this may change in the future. It is also worth mentioning that some DuckLake extension releases may have a dependency on DuckDB and therefore will need to adjust to the [DuckDB release calendar](https://duckdb.org/release_calendar.html).

Author: ```suggestion
Upcoming releases are shown in the table below. **Please note that these dates are tentative** and DuckLake maintainers may decide to push back release dates to ensure the stability and quality of releases. DuckLake spec releases are currently tied to DuckLake extension releases, this may change in the future. It is also worth mentioning that some DuckLake extension releases may have a dependency on DuckDB and therefore will need to adjust to the [DuckDB release calendar](https://duckdb.org/release_calendar).
```

{% else %}
_There are no upcoming releases announced at the moment. Please check back later._
{% endif %}

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD055 MD056 MD058 -->

## Past Releases

In the following, we list DuckLake's past releases.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD034 MD055 MD056 MD058 -->

{% assign latest_version_number = "0.0" %}

{% for row in site.data.past_releases %}
  {% if row.ducklake_extension > latest_version_number %}
    {% assign latest_version_number = row.ducklake_extension %}
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}

| Date | DuckLake Spec | DuckLake Extension | Announcement      |
|:-----|--------------:|-------------------:|-------------------|
{% for row in site.data.past_releases %}
  {%- if row.ducklake_extension == latest_version_number %}
    {% assign docs_version = "stable" %}
  {% else %}
    {% assign docs_version = row.ducklake_extension %}
  {% endif -%}
  | {{ row.release_date }} | [{{ row.ducklake_spec }}](/docs/{{ docs_version }}/specification/introduction) | [{{ row.ducklake_extension }}](/docs/{{ docs_version }}/duckdb/introduction) | [post]({{ row.release_notes }}) |
{% endfor %}

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD034 MD055 MD056 MD058 -->

## Compatibility Matrix

> As mentioned, DuckLake spec and extension for DuckDB are currently released together. This may not be the case in the future, where the spec and the extension may have different release cadances. It can also be the case that the extension needs a DuckDB core update, therefore DuckDB versions are also included in this compatibility matrix.

Author: ```suggestion
As mentioned, DuckLake spec and extension for DuckDB are currently released together. This may not be the case in the future, where the spec and the extension may have different release cadences. It can also be the case that the extension needs a DuckDB core update, therefore, DuckDB versions are also included in this compatibility matrix.
```
